doc: fast_pair: add documentation for the Fast Pair advertising manager (#23209)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/bluetooth/services/fast_pair/adv_manager.rst

With the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER` Kconfig option enabled, the following Kconfig options are available for this module:

* :kconfig:option:`BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE` - This Kconfig choice is defined to select the Fast Pair use case (device type) and to enable additional advertising behaviours that are specific to the chosen use case.

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_UNSPECIFIED` - The option provides a neutral configuration without use case specific behaviors.
    By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_UNSPECIFIED` option is selected.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_LOCATOR_TAG` - The option provides a tailored configuration for Fast Pair locator tags that use the FMDN extension.
    It depends on the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_FMDN` Kconfig option.

    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_LOCATOR_TAG_CLOCK_SYNC_TRIGGER` - The option enables the clock synchronization trigger for locator tag devices.

>       The option is enabled by default.

Reviewer: Could you expand more on this mechanism or provide link to more details?

Dependencies
============

The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER` Kconfig option depends on several Bluetooth LE features:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL` - Peripheral role support
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_EXT_ADV` - Extended advertising support
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PRIVACY` - Bluetooth privacy support
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_SMP` - Security Manager Protocol support
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ADV_PROV` - Advertising data provider support
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ADV_PROV_FAST_PAIR` - Fast Pair advertising data provider support

Implementation details
**********************

> This module uses Zephyr Bluetooth subsystem APIs to manage the Fast Pair advertising set and the connections that are derived from it.

Reviewer: Does the module allow for more advertising sets coexistance? How is it handled? What happens when someone connects to them?

* Module does not maintain any connection.

  .. note::
     The module currently supports only one connection at a time.
     A connection stops the Fast Pair advertising even if the advertising triggers are active.
     The advertising is restarted when the connection is terminated.

Otherwise, the advertising is inactive.

The module tracks the advertising activity and is able to report each change with the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_info_cb.adv_state_changed` callback to the application.

Trigger state changes
---------------------

The trigger configuration (:c:struct:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_trigger_config`) may update the module's advertising state once the given trigger is activated with the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_request` function.
The advertising state is also updated when the previously activated trigger gets deactivated as its configuration is no longer applied.

Advertising set deinitialization
--------------------------------

During the disable operation - in the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_disable` function context, the module stops the ongoing Bluetooth activities:

* Advertising process with the :c:func:`bt_le_ext_adv_stop` function.

> * Active connections with the :c:func:`bt_conn_disconnect` function.

Author: here

Similarly, the disable callback is used in the context of the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_disable` function to deactivate the use case extension.

For this process to work, the use case layer must register the mandatory callback structure with the enable and disable callbacks.

Currently, the use case extension is only available for the locator tags.

Locator tag
-----------

The locator tag extension registers the :c:struct:`bt_fast_pair_info_cb` and the :c:struct:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb` callback structures to manage the advertising triggers that are specific to the locator tag use case.

This extension defines the FMDN provisioning trigger that is used to maintain the Fast Pair advertising between the Owner Account Key write (:c:member:`bt_fast_pair_info_cb.account_key_written`) and the successful FMDN provisioning (:c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.provisioning_state_changed`).
This advertising trigger is also configured to suspend the RPA rotation during the FMDN provisioning.
If the FMDN provisioning is not completed within the allowed time, the extension deactivates the FMDN provisioning with the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_request` function.

> The trigger behaviour is aligned with the requirements of the locator tag guidelines from the FMDN Accessory specification.

Reviewer: Please add link here.

.. _bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_readme:

Fast Pair Advertising Manager
#############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Fast Pair Advertising Manager is a helper module for the :ref:`bt_fast_pair_readme` that provides management of the Fast Pair advertising set.
The module implements a trigger-based system for controlling Fast Pair advertising state that allows client modules to request advertising with their preferred configuration.

> It also defines the use case layer that provides implementation of specific advertising requirements for supported use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also defines the use case layer that provides an implementation of specific advertising requirements for supported use cases.
```

Overview
********

The Fast Pair Advertising Manager module provides the following key features:

* **Trigger-based advertising control**: Allows multiple components to request the start of advertising using registered triggers.

> * **Trigger-based advertising configuration**: Provides flexible configuration of the advertising parameters such as the pairing mode and RPA rotation behavior based on trigger requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Trigger-based advertising configuration**: Provides flexible configuration of the advertising parameters, such as pairing mode and RPA rotation behavior based on trigger requirements.
```

* **Payload synchronization**: Ensures advertising payload updates are synchronized with RPA rotations.
* **Extension compatibility**: Is compatible with the Fast Pair extensions that are supported by the :ref:`bt_fast_pair_readme` module (for example, the Find My Device Network extension).

  .. include:: /includes/fast_pair_fmdn_rename.txt

* **Use case support**: Provides tailored behavior for specific Fast Pair device types (for example, locator tags).

.. note::
   The module is designed to work in cooperative thread context.

.. _bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_config:

Configuration
*************

> The Fast Pair Advertising Manager is enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable the Fast Pair Advertising Manager, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER` Kconfig option.
```

Author: Are you sure? We have a similar sentence in the integration guide, and I thought the module documentation should look a bit differently (e.g. more descriptive sentences instead of user-oriented call-to-action instructions).

As this is a helper module, the Kconfig option is only configurable if the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR` Kconfig option is enabled (see the :ref:`bt_fast_pair_readme` documentation for more details).

> With the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER` Kconfig option enabled, the following Kconfig options are available for this module:

Author: similar to my comment regarding the @peknis suggestion:

https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/23209#discussion_r2222620972

* :kconfig:option:`BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE` - This Kconfig choice is defined to select the Fast Pair use case (device type) and to enable additional advertising behaviours that are specific to the chosen use case.

>   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_UNSPECIFIED` - The option provides a neutral configuration without use case specific behaviors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_UNSPECIFIED` - The option provides a neutral configuration without behaviors specific to a use case.
```

    By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_UNSPECIFIED` option is selected.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_LOCATOR_TAG` - The option provides a tailored configuration for Fast Pair locator tags that use the FMDN extension.
    It depends on the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_FMDN` Kconfig option.

    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_LOCATOR_TAG_CLOCK_SYNC_TRIGGER` - The option enables the clock synchronization trigger for locator tag devices.
      The option is enabled by default.

Dependencies
============

> The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER` Kconfig option depends on several Bluetooth LE features:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER` Kconfig option depends on the following Bluetooth LE features:
```

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL` - Peripheral role support
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_EXT_ADV` - Extended advertising support
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PRIVACY` - Bluetooth privacy support
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_SMP` - Security Manager Protocol support
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ADV_PROV` - Advertising data provider support
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ADV_PROV_FAST_PAIR` - Fast Pair advertising data provider support

Implementation details
**********************

This module uses Zephyr Bluetooth subsystem APIs to manage the Fast Pair advertising set and the connections that are derived from it.

Module lifecycle
================

The module follows a specific lifecycle:

1. **Initialization**: The module is initialized during system startup by the ``SYS_INIT`` macro.
2. **Configuration**: The majority of the configuration (such as information callbacks or Bluetooth identity) is performed before enabling the module.

> 3. **Enabling**: The module is enabled with the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_enable`, which requires that the Fast Pair subsystem is ready (:c:func:`bt_fast_pair_enable`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Enabling**: The module is enabled with the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_enable` function, which requires that the Fast Pair subsystem is ready (:c:func:`bt_fast_pair_enable`).
```

4. **Operation**: Triggers can request advertising activation or deactivation.

> 5. **Disabling**: The module is disabled with the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_disable` before the Fast Pair subsystem is disabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. **Disabling**: The module is disabled with the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_disable` function before the Fast Pair subsystem is disabled.
```

Each trigger can have a dedicated configuration that is described by the :c:struct:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_trigger_config` structure.
The trigger configuration is a constant field of the :c:struct:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_trigger` structure and cannot be changed at runtime.

Advertising process
===================

The module uses the Bluetooth Extended Advertising API (:file:`include/zephyr/bluetooth/bluetooth.h`) to manage the Fast Pair advertising set.

.. note::
   Even though the Bluetooth Extended Advertising API is used to manage the Fast Pair advertising set, the module still broadcasts advertising frames in the legacy format over-the-air.

Advertising set initialization
------------------------------

The Fast Pair advertising set is allocated with the :c:func:`bt_le_ext_adv_create` function in the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_enable` context.
During the advertising set creation, the module registers the following callbacks:

* :c:member:`bt_le_ext_adv_cb.connected` - The callback is used to track the connection state.
* :c:member:`bt_le_ext_adv_cb.rpa_expired` - The callback is used to manage the RPA rotations.

> Additionally, during advertising set creation, the advertising parameters are set:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, during the advertising set creation, the advertising parameters are set as follows:
```

> * Advertising interval ``100ms``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Advertising interval ``100 ms``
```

  .. note::

>      Currently, the advertising interval is fixed and cannot be changed with the Kconfig option or API functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     Currently, the advertising interval is fixed and cannot be changed with a Kconfig option or API functions.
```

* Bluetooth identity according to the module configuration (:c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_id_set`).

Since this module is typically responsible for setting the RPA timeout that affects all advertising sets, it triggers the initial RPA rotation with the :c:func:`bt_le_oob_get_local` function to configure the timeout according to the Fast Pair advertising requirements.

> This operation happens right after the advertising set creation and before the advertising process is started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This operation takes place right after the advertising set creation and before the advertising process is started.
```

> The module may start the advertising in the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_enable` context if the appropriate conditions are met.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The module may start advertising in the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_enable` context if the appropriate conditions are met.
```

RPA rotations
-------------

The module is typically responsible for setting the RPA timeout.
The module sets the RPA timeout with the :c:func:`bt_le_set_rpa_timeout` function in the context of the :c:member:`bt_le_ext_adv_cb.rpa_expired` callback that is registered during the advertising set creation.

.. note::

>    In case the FMDN extension is used, the FMDN advertising configures the RPA timeout in the FMDN provisioned state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If the FMDN extension is used, the FMDN advertising configures the RPA timeout in the FMDN provisioned state.
```

   This module is tightly integrated with the FMDN extension and respects this requirement.

> The timeout value is recalculated for every RPA rotation and is being randomized to increase privacy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The timeout value is recalculated for every RPA rotation and randomized to increase privacy.
```

The typical timeout ranges between ``11`` and ``15`` minutes.
The :c:func:`sys_csrand_get` function from the :ref:`zephyr:random_api` subsystem is used to generate random value for the timeout.

> The RPA rotation is suspended if any active advertising trigger has :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_trigger_config.suspend_rpa` flag set to ``true``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The RPA rotation is suspended if any active advertising trigger has the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_trigger_config.suspend_rpa` flag set to ``true``.
```

This is achieved by returning ``false`` from the :c:member:`bt_le_ext_adv_cb.rpa_expired` callback.

Advertising payload
-------------------

The module uses the :ref:`bt_le_adv_prov_readme` library (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ADV_PROV`) to construct the advertising payload.

During the payload update procedure, the module populates the :c:struct:`bt_le_adv_prov_adv_state` structure to indicate the current advertising state.

> Information about the pairing mode, RPA rotation and other parameters is passed to the :ref:`bt_le_adv_prov_readme` library with the help of this structure and the API functions that are mentioned in subsequent sentences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Information about the pairing mode, RPA rotation, and other parameters is passed to the :ref:`bt_le_adv_prov_readme` library with the help of this structure and the API functions that are mentioned in subsequent sentences.
```

Then, it calls the :c:func:`bt_le_adv_prov_get_ad` function to encode the advertising payload in the array of :c:struct:`bt_data` elements.
The array size is properly allocated with the :c:func:`bt_le_adv_prov_get_ad_prov_cnt` function before the encode operation.
Similarly, the :c:func:`bt_le_adv_prov_get_sd` function is used to encode the scanning data.
As the final step, the collected payload is set in the Fast Pair advertising set with the :c:func:`bt_le_ext_adv_set_data` function.

The advertising payload is updated in the following cases:

* Advertising process is started.

> * The :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_payload_refresh` API function is called and the advertising is ongoing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_payload_refresh` function is called and the advertising is ongoing.
```

* The :c:member:`bt_le_ext_adv_cb.rpa_expired` callback is triggered due to the RPA rotation and the advertising is ongoing.
* The pairing mode state of the module changes as a result of the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_request` function call and the advertising is ongoing.

Advertising conditions
----------------------

The advertising is started with the :c:func:`bt_le_ext_adv_start` function and the process is maintained if the following conditions are met:

> * Module is enabled (:c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_enable`).
> * At least one advertising trigger gets activated with the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_request` function.
> * Module does not maintain any connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The module is enabled (:c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_enable`).
* At least one advertising trigger gets activated with the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_request` function.
* The module does not maintain any connection.
```

  .. note::
     The module currently supports only one connection at a time.
     A connection stops the Fast Pair advertising even if the advertising triggers are active.
     The advertising is restarted when the connection is terminated.

Otherwise, the advertising is inactive.

> The module tracks the advertising activity and is able to report each change with the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_info_cb.adv_state_changed` callback to the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The module tracks the advertising activity and can report each change with the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_info_cb.adv_state_changed` callback to the application.
```

Trigger state changes
---------------------

The trigger configuration (:c:struct:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_trigger_config`) may update the module's advertising state once the given trigger is activated with the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_request` function.
The advertising state is also updated when the previously activated trigger gets deactivated as its configuration is no longer applied.

Advertising set deinitialization
--------------------------------

> During the disable operation - in the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_disable` function context, the module stops the ongoing Bluetooth activities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the disable operation, in the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_disable` function context, the module stops the ongoing Bluetooth activities:
```

* Advertising process with the :c:func:`bt_le_ext_adv_stop` function.
* Active connections with the :c:func:`bt_conn_disconnect` function.

>   This disconnect operation is only confined to the connections that are derived from the Fast Pair advertising set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This disconnect operation is only limited to the connections that are derived from the Fast Pair advertising set.
```

The RPA timeout is set globally with the :c:func:`bt_le_set_rpa_timeout` function in the Bluetooth stack and affects all advertising sets.

FMDN integration
================

The module is compatible with the Find My Device Network (FMDN) extension and handles the complex advertising state transitions automatically.
The advertising policy of the Fast Pair advertising set respects the requirements of the FMDN advertising set.
The module rotates the RPA and the payload of the Fast Pair advertising set synchronously with the FMDN advertising set.

The module yields control over the RPA timeout configuration to the FMDN advertising set once the FMDN provisioning is completed.
Conversely, right after the unprovisioning, the module takes back control over the RPA timeout configuration.
To achieve this, the module uses the :c:func:`bt_le_oob_get_local` function to trigger the premature RPA rotation and set the RPA according to the Fast Pair advertising requirements.

Use case extensions
===================

The module supports use case layer that provides an implementation of specific advertising requirements for supported use cases.

> By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_UNSPECIFIED` is enabled which means that this layer is disabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_ADV_MANAGER_USE_CASE_UNSPECIFIED` Kconfig option is enabled, which means that this layer is disabled.
```

If this default configuration is changed and the specific use case is selected, the core library uses the enable callback to activate the use case extension in the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_enable` function.

Similarly, the disable callback is used in the context of the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_disable` function to deactivate the use case extension.

For this process to work, the use case layer must register the mandatory callback structure with the enable and disable callbacks.

> Currently, the use case extension is only available for the locator tags.

Author: sure, I can move it at the top.

Locator tag
-----------

The locator tag extension registers the :c:struct:`bt_fast_pair_info_cb` and the :c:struct:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb` callback structures to manage the advertising triggers that are specific to the locator tag use case.

This extension defines the FMDN provisioning trigger that is used to maintain the Fast Pair advertising between the Owner Account Key write (:c:member:`bt_fast_pair_info_cb.account_key_written`) and the successful FMDN provisioning (:c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.provisioning_state_changed`).
This advertising trigger is also configured to suspend the RPA rotation during the FMDN provisioning.
If the FMDN provisioning is not completed within the allowed time, the extension deactivates the FMDN provisioning with the :c:func:`bt_fast_pair_adv_manager_request` function.

> The trigger behaviour is aligned with the requirements of the `Fast Pair Locator Tag Specific Guidelines`_ section of the FMDN Accessory specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The trigger behavior is aligned with the requirements of the `Fast Pair Locator Tag Specific Guidelines`_ section of the FMDN Accessory specification.
```
